most of the tours are very similar to one another (probably because most of the distilleries we visited are owned by the same company, diageo).

you have a visitor's center where you ask to go on a tour and a little "museum" where you get to wait until the tour starts. there's also a shop of course to purchase different whiskies.

[here are some selected pictures.](http://imgur.com/a/olqxw#0)

the tour covers the basic process of whisky production. they show you barley and explain what malted barley is and how you can use peat to add a smokey character. usually the tour guide passes around some different ingredients so you can smell and/or taste them (malted barley tastes pretty good).
then they show you their mill used to make the grist. they explain how the grist goes into the mash tuns and how they extract the sugars from the malted barley. all of this is done in a genuine and delicious scottish accent of course.

so they go through the whole process (look it up if you're interested). basically it goes malted barley -&gt; grind into grist -&gt; mash into wort -&gt; ferment wort into wash -&gt; distill wash into low wines -&gt; distill low wines into spirit -&gt; cut out the "heart" (the best part of the spirit), collect it and -&gt; cask maturation.

the edradour distillery was so "touristy" because, compared to the others, they really played the "we're small and quaint and traditional" card really hard. for ecample, all the people doing tours and generally "managing" the ridiculous amount of tourists wore traditional scottish clothing for no reason at all, the tools and machinery just seemed dated instead of traditional and they seemed to make most of their money from the tourists instead of their craft. now i'm not dissing them at all, they had a lovely tour (the only one where we got to take pictures inside, [usually you'd get this instead](http://i.imgur.com/ikayl90.jpg)) and some very good whiskies, but it just felt strange after visiting all the other "normal" distilleries.
