album inside link.

background: handed down from my grandfather's whiskey collection. bottle of unopened canadian masterpiece is in a gift box, lined with a gold foiled box, an info card and the bottle with tax stamp. the tax stamp is 18052229 from 1964, number 570585215 on the left stamp, i-549 on the right stamp. full title on the label is canadian masterpiece, imported, blended canadian whiskey, a product of calvert of canada 
ltd, bottled in canada. each bottle is registered by number of the distillery. this bottle's number is 3129*4, where * is illegible. could 
either be 9 or 0. nas. most likely has e150a. estimated value in today's dollars: $40 - $80.

info from the back of the bottle: 

&gt;each of our six distilleries located all across the breadth of canada yields highly individual whiskies, subtle but intense from new 
westminster on the pacific coast, and gimli, manitoba, light and tangy from beaupre, 3000 miles across canada on the st. lawrence, 
zesty whisky from amherstburg, dry yet lively ones from waterloo, rich and full bodied from ville la salle, at montreal.

&gt;from these great stocks of fine whiskies, our master blender selects only the rare whiskies of truly superlative quality and compatible character. after maturing for many years, these exceptional whiskies are skillfully blended under his personal supervision and slowly 
married to create this masterpiece of luxurious smoothness and deep brilliant flavor."

historical significance: from researching on the internet, i found that this was mainly a product of the waterloo distillery in canada and is where seagram's began, thus depending on who you talk to, is where canadian whisky as we know it began. it is probably the first premium canadian whiskey product from a large distillery before seagram's began buying up other distilleries and merging them. in a way, this is the beginning of what crown royal has become today.

**canadian masterpeice 1964 (80 proof)**

color: chestnut

nose: barnyard funk, caramel, toffee, praline, brown sugar, maple syrup, spearmint, a bit of chalk, lime, french vanilla

taste: loads of caramel, confectionery sugar, and some vegetal funk at the tip of the tongue followed by liquorice, anise and wood tannin mid palate, with cherry and maple syrup, vanilla, burnt brown sugar and mint at the back end; creamy mouth-feel

finish: moderate length, of burnt caramel, tooth paste and liquorice

overall: textbook canadian whiskey. delicious woody sweetness with a hint of mint from the rye. much better than crown royal standard offerings. almost as good as forty creek today. not something i would go out of the way for, but if i wanted to show someone what a 
canadian whiskey was, and still is, it would be this. 

rating: excellent (85/100)
