my sister-in-law came from cape breton and had toured the glenora distillery. she kindly brought a bottle over to new brunswick for the family to enjoy during the holidays. there has been one other review of glen breton on here, but in case you haven’t read it: the glen breton is a single malt from cape breton - the island that sits on top of nova scotia. it is canada’s only single malt whisky with the distiller having to go through a legal battle to use the term ‘glen.’ it is 43% abv and aptly has a maple leaf on the front of the bottle. to note the packaging, it looks good in its black flip open box, however, the cork seems to be of cheap or fabricated quality and the top is sealed by plastic instead of foil which is a bit disappointing when it comes to aesthetic seeing as the bottle rings in at $75.99. however, i am set on not letting these tiny shortfallings from tainting my review!

nose: the smell is much like a speyside in that you get an ocean air and saltiness to it. it smells clean but not medicinal. the nose is not full bodied (it is a very pale color in the bottle and glass) but still has a satisfaction to it with a woodsy, out in the cabin scent to it. with water, the warmth increases. i am enjoying the dram while a blizzard is raging outside out in the woods of new brunswick and it feels like the perfect way to be enjoying it.

palate: the taste immediately goes to the back of the throat - however, it almost bounces right back to the front of the mouth. you get an immediate oak flavour once the taste reaches the front of your tongue. the oak is a bit tinsel-like, and i assume for two reasons: they use new oak barrels for aging and copper pots for distilling. however, being tinsel-like doesn’t feel bad in the mouth, just sharp. after this return to the front of the mouth, the flavour rolls back easily, turning to a very, very slight smoke, before falling into the belly and warming. the palate is a bit like a trip - variety, unexpected turns, and a final, relaxing return home.

finish: the finish is the least notable part. a bit disappointing after the excursion in the palate. the woodsiness of the nose returns in the sinuses. the tongue feels coated with oakiness. the palate leaves you anticipating the next sip.

to conclude, i know this whisky has gotten some flack in the past, but i really enjoyed the drams i’ve had thus far. the palate really is an adventure, and has some unexpected complexities that were not expected from such a pale malt. i’d say it is well worth the $75. it is dynamic enough to slowly work your way through a bottle, but drinkable enough you’re going to have to have a second dram after the first. for the balance between complexity and drinkability, i would give glen breton a 91/100.
